Notes on building the Atlas v2

For LEDs - WS2812 addressable LED strips. I was new to the LEDs so I asked for a quote.  Order 10m strips, it will save you a lot of soldering vs 1m strips!

You have the option of Black or White, and ECO or regular.  I think the black looks slightly better, but white looks very similar. Side by side I couldn't tell a real difference between ECO or not.  So, for the savings, I'd go with Black ECO again.  Either way is up to you, though, there's no wrong choice!

For printing the parts:
Filament: I used PLA. You could use ASA or PETG, really whatever you want.
Mix your build plates between big parts and small, to maximize efficiency.  (Print some of ring 1 with ring 25).

I prefer the single piece vertical parts: https://discord.com/channels/469330414121517056/1200466297679532132/1202052941247430726

Saves printing a few parts, including some of the couplers, and they're nice and rigid as a single piece.

I made a small jig to drill two 6mm holes in each ring, just offset from a vertical support.  I drilled all of those holes, then attached the LED strip.  After I peeled a bit back on the end, and soldered the leads. Then passed the wires through the hole.

Others choose to drill a hole per wire in each strip.

Were I to do it again, I'd probably do a single 6.5mm hole in each strip.

For wires I used bntechgo 3 pair, 20 gauge.  I used WAGO connectors to make wiring quickly, but you could solder direct between rows, or crimp on connectors.

From the WAGO connectors back to the controller I used 16 gauge wire.

So my Wiring looks like

Controller + to 3 port WAGO  to + at start of LED string and end of LED string
Controller Signal to 2 port WAGO to signal at start of LED string
Controller - to 3 port WAGO to - at start of LED string and end of LED string

For figuring out the LED strings, how to break up your rings into strings, generate a model, and the values for xlights, I wrote a python script: https://github.com/kraegar/Atlas-v2-xmodel/tree/main

To use the script, you just have to count the LEDs per ring, and adjust in the script (it should even work if you have a different number of rings).  If your controller has a different number of ports, adjust that as well.

For final assembly, I started by putting ring 24 on, hot gluing it in place, then 23, etc.

I put ring 25 on the lower half, and put it in place after I'd glued ring 24.

I labelled the ring in/out wires, so I didn't have to question what was what later.

I pre-labelled wires to go from the WAGO connectors back to the controller.

Every time I completed a section, I connected it back to the wires that would go to the controller.  I plugged in all the wires at the end.

For support and chat, use the led-lighting-diy channel in the DrZzs discord, and chat in the "Questions about Atlas V2" Thread.
